HIV or human immunodeficiency viruses is the cause of AIDS.
It can infect the bloodstream following
unprotected sex from an infected person,
exposure to infected blood,
or can be passed from an infected pregnant mother to her child.
Having unprotected sex or sharing drug injection equipment
with a person infected with HIV
are the two most common ways to become infected.
Once infected, the HIV virus attacks and destroys
the infection fighting CD4 cells of the body's immune system.
The loss of the immune system leaves patients
vulnerable to illnesses,
including cancer, opportunistic infections and dementia.
There is no cure for HIV AIDS,
but there are treatments that slow the progression of AIDS
by limiting the number of immune cells that are destroyed.
The body can then replace the ones that are lost.
There are combination of drugs used to treat HIV
called cocktails or triple therapy.
These cocktails attack HIV in different ways
and protect the immune system
so it can continue to fight infections.
One part of the cocktail is called
Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors or NNRTIs
After HIV enters the immune cell
it starts to make copies of itself,
but before it can make those copies
NNRTI medications block the virus from replicating.
NNRTI medications are part of the HIV cocktail
that work before HIV can make more copies of itself.